# Open Loggie
Aditya Madduluri, SP23


### Abstract
The Open Loggie aims to be a platform that provides a collaborative environment for individuals in the logistics and supply chain industry. In this environment, members can share ideas, information, resources, and best practices. It would organically grow with the help of invested community members being the cornerstone of its development. This platform would continually evolve to meet the challenges and needs of its members. Beginning with a Reddit forum like webspace and integrating artificial intelligence tools to implement systems in order to create a simple user interface this platform would provide the users an efficient system developed by the community and for the community. Open Loggie has the potential to revolutionize this community. With the systems in place and the platform would become the one stop shop for all things logistics and continue to grow scaling to the ever growing needs of our global society.

### Purpose of Community
The field of logistics and supply chain itself is global in nature. This means that this community's success depends on ensuring everyone involved in this is equally successful. In recent years, we saw the direct impact of a failing community in logistics. We saw severe disruptions in the supply chain during the COVID-19 pandemic when there was a severe decline in demand in early 2020. The White House published a post outlining the impacts the pandemic has caused on the global supply chain as a way to provide answers to the concerned citizens suffering from shortages in all areas of the economy. They stated “When the pandemic hit, businesses were stuck with billions of dollars in unsold goods, causing inventory-to-sales ratios to surge briefly before businesses liquidated these inventories. But, as the economy recovered and demand increased, businesses have not yet been able to bring inventories fully back to pre-pandemic levels. (Soltas & Helper, Why the pandemic has disrupted supply chains 2021)” This had a global ripple effect causing businesses and whole industries to prepare for a slowing market. However, when things began to recover the supply chain was not prepared due to shortages in the workforce, lack of equipment availability, and disruption in production. As a chain reaction, when one area of the supply chain reached a setback, the effects rippled into other areas of the system as well. Therefore, it is imperative that there are systems in place, such as resources, platforms, and a community of support in the logistics place. With the right system, the supply chain can function optimally and support the global economy's needs. Open Loggie hopes to address this issue. By creating a platform that is open and easily accessible to anyone that can benefit from the provided system, the project hopes to become a collaborative space for people to come together to discuss concerns, and complications and collaborate and bridge the gap in this global space.

## Target Audience
When looking at any area of interest, logistics plays a crucial role from its inception to the end user. In a microlevel of logistics, an example of this can be a food delivery service such as Grubhub or uber eats. The customer requests food on an app, and it gets picked up and delivered to their doorstep. The logistics behind this simple service can be quite intricate. For example, the delivery service system needs to communicate with the food establishment, place the order, located available drivers in the area, and find the most optimal way to move the driver from their location to the food establishment to time it perfectly so that the driver has minimal wait to time so that they can focus on being on the road to maximize efficiency and finally route the driver to the destination where they then drop off the food and take a picture for confirmation. This intricate system is mostly done on the backend and many of us never realize all the moving parts to something as simple as food delivery. On a macro scale, logistics can apply to the energy needs of a nation. This can start from the point of extraction of fossil fuels, transfer and movement for processing, from where it would then be converted into various mediums to be used in energy production. This would again need a system on how to efficiently deliver the energy solutions to the end customer. In both cases, the common theme is to find effective and efficient methods to move a product or service from one place to another. Therefore the target audience of a platform for logisticians would not be limited to anyone in a specific field but open to all sectors. This is due to the fact that each product or service also has other supporting systems that allow for its success. In the case of the food delivery system, in order for the system to be successful, there needs to be a system in place that ensures that food establishments have the needed ingredients to create the products that are in demand by the customers. Similarly, in the macro environment example in order for energy production and distribution to be successful, there need to be systems such as shipping containers available for the movement of fossil fuels or factories needing workers supporting the energy production. Therefore, ensuring an **open** platform for logisticians in all fields just makes sense.

## Strategy

## Phase I
The first phase will focus on community building. However, community building will be an ongoing portion throughout the project but would originally focus on contributors who would pioneer the project. This phase will consist of identifying key stakeholders who will also be involved in the basic development of the project. Stakeholders will identify individuals and teams who will be tasked with specific aspects of the project. During the inception of the project, the primary platform used would be Discord as it is a platform that is committed to supporting the values of working open. It would provide a place for members to communicate over chat and voice within servers for free.

__License__


The foundation of the platform will be embedded in working open and as an open platform we hope to promote the software to continue to be available and free to all its users regardless of the changes that will be continued to be made to the program over the years. Therefore the platform will utilize a copyleft license under the GNU General public license (*GNU Project*. With this, we can ensure any modifications or changes that are developed using our platform will continue to benefit the community, the platform hopes to support. Once the primary contributors are identified, the project would pivot toward implementing a community on GitHub.

__Code spaces__


GitHub is known for its best-in-class open-source collaboration tools used by developers around the world. The platform also provides integrated project management tools to allow for exceptional accountability within projects. Once projects and teams are identified in discord by stakeholders, teams would be divided up and have an identified team leader tasked with the responsibility to hold their team accountable throughout the build process. These team leaders would utilize GitHub issues and tools provided in project tables to create tasks, deadlines, status bars, and code spaces as a centralized repository. This would allow all members to have access to each other, in the chance where one member may need to collaborate with another within a team. The checks and balances set in place with version control can prevent loss of work and also a method to create backups. Additionally, each snippet of code or update in software would require clear documentation to ensure the seamless longevity of the project. This is to prevent roadblocks in development in case projects are left inconclusive by one team, a different team should be able to pick up without a hitch.  Project insights provided by GitHub can allow members to create a status update for their projects to keep all stakeholders informed throughout each step of the way.

__Social infrastructure__


During this phase, the team’s primary goal would be to create a forum-like website similar to Reddit that would allow users to make posts outlining questions they may have, and based on the topic, it would be published into all related ‘communities’ that the questions may apply. With the recent artificial intelligence developments, this could be a potential avenue to explore to optimize the flow of information being published within the website. An artificial intelligence system implemented directly into the website could allow users to connect with answers that might already be available online, or with users who have answered questions that are similar to the question being asked. It would essentially be a ‘smart’ Reddit that connects users' questions to answers available on the platform or posts it for other users with similar interests to answer. The website would implement a reward system that would reward users who participate in answering questions or partake in the community to have a higher visibility for when they may need to ask questions. This would incentivize users to be more involved and allow for deeper community engagement.

## Phase II
The next phase would be focused on bridging the gap between the website platform and the discord platform. In order to bring the community closer together, the project’s next steps will be focusing on creating a chatbot-like feature. The chatbot would also have artificial integration that can simplify the user experience. Sometimes it can get overwhelming to look at a website that has a lot going on. For example, when you type into a Google search engine, you get millions of results. A user can easily get distracted by the sea of information projected back to them. ChatGPT integration within Bing (Schwartz, *Microsoft explains how Bing AI chat uses CHATGPT and search with prometheus* 2023 has allowed for a similar experience causing users to rush to switch over to Bring during its initial launch. The bottom line is, users want simplicity. Therefore the next prime feature of phase II would be focused on a chatbot that integrated artificial intelligence that can query results curated to the user’s needs. This can be more efficient than a search engine integration as the results would cause the user to scroll through until they find something that could remotely meet their needs. The chatbot would instantly return a short list of threads with a small summary of the questions asked and how it has been addressed so far. And if none of the options seem to meet the user’s needs, they would still have the option to publish a new question. This question could then be verified by an artificial intelligence bot within the website to scour and return potential responses such as a FAQ list which may already answer the question. Overall artificial intelligence can play a key role in the logistics behind finding efficient solutions for users to gain the most out of the platform.

## Phase III
During this phase, the platform will pivot from a user-to-user experience to something beyond. The platform will encourage organizations to sponsor events, share educational content, and even post jobs. This phase will allow the platform to become more commercialized allowing the additional visibility to reach new audiences within the industry. It would also allow members of the community to connect with industry leaders. The platform would grow to reflect an education library similar to Coursera or LinkedIn Learning but focused on logistics and supply chain operations. Training modules would prepare logisticians in project management, supply chain operations, critical thinking, problem-solving techniques, and overall management skills development. The sponsored events would reflect a model similar to Kaggle's sponsored competitions. Programs like this can allow the community to come together to solve real-world problems while collaborating with global leaders in the industry. This would benefit organizations to garner innovative solutions and also gain visibility in the industry. Similarly, the community members benefit by collaborating with other members, gaining visibility with employers, and experience in the practical application of their skills. This can evolve into also creating a jobs bulletin where employers can connect with employees or allow the artificial intelligence integration to pair up the employers with the employees to improve the logistic efficiency of finding the right person for the right job.

## Phase IV
This phase will consist of ongoing efforts that will allow the platform to continue to be an asset to the users, stakeholders, and organizations that would benefit from its establishment. Change is the only constant in our global economy, therefore it is imperative that the platform continues to pivot, innovate and identify tools and systems that can allow the platform to be an asset to all the community members. It is not only important that the systems are built to meet the needs of the users but also continue to be the go-to platform 10 years from now. In addition to the continued future development, this phase will also consider sustainability of the platform. To ensure that the platform has a sustainable future, as mentioned in phase I, every update will require proper documentation such as readme files or commented code to ensure seamless troubleshooting or updates to old work. As the organization grows, it will outgrow the maintenance capabilities of volunteer community members, but with the support of sponsors incorporated from phase III, the organization can focus on having full time staff dedicated to ensuring the community’s need continues to be met. As technology continues to develop, the use of artificial intelligence will make productivity  of individuals extremely efficient. Therefore the platform would still be able to sustain with minimal full time staff dedicated to managing teams of volunteers.

## Conclusion
As a community that is heavily interconnected, the success of one group can and will impact the success of others. Therefore creating a platform that webs these groups for the greater good of the industry would be pivotal. The open loggie aims to be the go to location for all things logistics. The platform aims to connect individuals and their ideas and experiences with those who may be embarking in a new direction. When exploring a new idea, it is always better to use a guiding light than to figure out everything by oneself. Using the platform, members can tap into a collaborative community that comes together to improve innovation, efficiency and effectiveness. Additionally, with improved decision making, there are less opportunities for failure. In a community where one failure can cause a ripple effect in many sectors, the room for error is extremely limited. The open platform aims to recruit experienced individuals to contribute in its development but also have direct feedback and guidance on the future direction of the organization. Allowing the customers also involved as stakeholder, the platform becomes more of a “by the people and for the people” allowing each individual to have the ability to place anywhere within the community curve.

## References
The GNU general public license v3.0 - GNU Project - Free Software Foundation.  [A GNU head] . (n.d.). https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html
Schwartz, B. (2023, February 22). Microsoft explains how Bing AI chat uses CHATGPT and search with prometheus. Search Engine Land. https://searchengineland.com/microsoft-bing-explains-how-bing-ai-chat-leverages-chatgpt-and-bing-search-with-prometheus-393437#:~:text=Basically%2C%20the%20technology%20is%20an,use%20for%20its%20training%20models
Soltas, E., & Helper, S. (2021, November 30). Why the pandemic has disrupted supply chains. The White House. https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2021/06/17/why-the-pandemic-has-disrupted-supply-chains/
