## An OPEN-SOURCE SOCIAL NETWORKING PLATFORM FOR HOBBYISTS & ENTHUSIASTS
Lianne Gao, IS 340, Spring 2023


### Abstract    
In this paper, I will provide a comprehensive overview of my open source project and how it will significantly influence the community. The purpose of this paper is for readers to gain a better understanding of the community’s goals and functioning by discussing activities this community will be engaging in, objectives, and the overall social structure. The aim of this paper is to apply the knowledge I gained from Dr. Bradley Alicea’s lecture by applying the lessons from class to create a hypothetical community of my own which will demonstrate my understanding of the concepts taught in IS 340. 


### Introduction
OpenSource.com [1] defines open-source as something that individuals can alter and distribute because its blueprint is publicly available. An open-source project is considered open-source if the source code is made publicly available for people to view, modify, and distribute under an open-source license with communication and feedback channels open to the community. In addition, open-source projects are very collaborative and transparent since developers and users are able to freely access and modify the source code in order to contribute to the project. A very common platform that is open-source is Django which is a “high-level Python web framework that enables rapid development of secure and maintainable websites.” [2] Django qualifies as an open-source project because its source code is available to the public where it can be modified and distributed by anyone under the Berkeley Software Distribution license. Django is also open-source because it brings together a large community of users who can contribute by reporting bug issues and more, meaning it is an extremely collaborative and transparent platform for building web applications. Additionally, there are several benefits of Django being an open-source project such as it being collaborative, having a supportive community, being cost-effective, customizable for users, flexible and secure. Django is cost-effective because the platform is open for users to use without paying any licensing fees. The public can also customize and create tailored solutions to meet their unique requirements as well as being flexible for users by constantly evolving and adding new features. Since Django currently has a large and expanding community who provide feedback and support each other through online forums, it is important to make sure the open source platform is secure so the community can identify and fix any issues that may arise. Thus, the advantages of open-source projects are exemplified by Django, where developers and users can contribute their skills and knowledge resulting in more diverse and impactful projects. In addition, since Django provides transparency towards the public, it builds trust with individuals directly within the project as well as those not directly connected to the project. In my personal opinion, open-source appears to be optimal for the future of coding in an information society. However, when considering it from a capitalist standpoint, it is uncertain if it can provide a stable source of income because it tends to rely on unpaid labor. Nevertheless, this issue can be addressed by acquiring grants and licenses, which I will discuss further when introducing my own open-source project. 


### Purpose    
Personally for me, I love meeting new people who share the same interests as me such as yoga, EDM music, cooking, etc., so I wanted to create a platform that made it easier for people to meet each other. With that being said, my IS 340 project is creating an open-source social networking platform that allows users to connect with each other based on shared interests, hobbies, or causes. It could include features like forums, chat rooms, and event calendars. My open-source project vision is to create a collaborative and inclusive community platform that allows hobbyists and enthusiasts to connect with others who share their interests in fostering knowledge sharing, engagement, and personal growth. The aim of this project is to build a platform that empowers users to actively contribute through open discussions, collaborative work, issue tracking, and more. This aligns with the principles of transparency, inclusivity, collaboration which all are open-source principles discussed in class. In addition, I have hopes that this community social networking platform will be flexible, reusable, and enable users to create new and innovative ideas. I hope this platform will create a vibrant, diverse, and dynamic community of people who can learn, collaborate, and grow together, while promoting the values of openness and community-driven development.

Initially, my plan is to launch the platform as a website and subsequently expand to mobile applications. The use of open-source principles has become a key aspect in the information society as they have become a key advantage of community platforms, such as my open-source project. In this discussion, I want to thoroughly explain the importance of how my open-source project utilizes transparency, collaboration, inclusivity, open-source licensing, sustainability, security, flexibility, and integration. Openness and transparency are extremely important for this social networking community platform. This means the social networking platform’s source code will be made available to the public repository so users can view and modify the development of the roadmap and updates if necessary. A benefit of this is that it allows contributors to be involved in the development process of the app or website, which builds trust and engagement within the community. It is also extremely crucial to provide tools for collaborative work on the social networking website and app, such as wikis and issue tracking to encourage the sharing of knowledge and feedback. This open-source principle goes hand in hand with needing to prioritize an inclusive community-driven approach that prioritizes the user needs. By taking into account the needs and feedback of users, the platform can continue to evolve and improve. With this in mind, my open-source project will be nearly completely customizable, enabling users to create a one-of-a-kind experience that caters to their specific needs and preferences. Moving on to more logistics of the social networking platform, it is also essential to have sufficient open-source licensing that allows for free use and modification of the platform. This implies that users are not restricted by proprietary software, thus granting users greater flexibility and creativity in the development of the social networking platform. In addition, long-term planning, financial sustainability, maintenance, and support are all necessary for this open-source project because open-source governance like this will ensure the website and app remains relevant within the community. The social networking platform should also accommodate a wide range of interests and attract users from a diverse range of backgrounds. This can be done by adding features such as feedback channels, wikis, and other collaborative tools that will promote engagement. In any successful platform whether it is open-source based or not, security is essential when developing a community platform like this. Users will feel significantly more confident using a platform that prioritizes data protection and privacy. This can be done by hiring a cybersecurity team and educating cyber employees who are up-to-date with data protection practices including encryption. Last but not least, the open-source social community platform will be extremely successful if they partner with other organizations based on shared hobbies or interests. With this, the platform can provide additional resources and opportunities for users as well as spread to larger audiences. For example, partnering with a yoga studio such as CorePower Yoga can engage users to sign up for a class together thus expanding the community and creating new connections directly through the website or app. With all this in mind, utilizing open-source principles in this social networking community platform provides numerous benefits by making the platform engaging, relevant, and useful towards the community. 


### Target Audience
Our primary target audience would initially consist of hobbyists and enthusiasts, irrespective of their location within the United States. In other words, this platform would be for individuals who are passionate about their hobbies, interests, or causes and are looking to connect with others who share the same enthusiasm about said interest or hobby. It is also a great platform for individuals to learn about new hobbies and interests for those that have more experience in something. My open-source project can allow people to connect with like-minded individuals and would cater to a diverse range of interests. The main goal of this social networking platform is to allow the community to foster engagement and knowledge sharing. This can be done by including features such as forums, event calendars, chat rooms, and other collaborative work spaces. Since my project vision is centered around creating a collaborative, open, and inclusive environment, I want to prioritize the user needs in order to help the community develop and grow. Overall, the target audience for my open-source social networking website and app should be individuals who are seeking a space to connect with like-minded people who share the same passions. Once again, the aim of my project is to allow individuals to learn and grow from each other in this collaborative community. 

### Strategy & Code Acess
In this section, I will discuss the development of an open-source social networking platform that allows users to connect based on shared interests, hobbies, or causes. The open-source code will be publicly available on GitHub so anyone can access it and download it. In order to develop a code access strategy for open-sourcing the code of the social networking platform on Github, it is important to first identify project stakeholders. The project stakeholders include the developers, users, and contributors associated with the platform who will significantly impact the development and growth of this open-source project. After that, it is important to choose a license that allows free use and modification of the source code. In addition, the project requires a repository on Github which should include all the documentation: source code, development roadmap, user guidelines, etc. The developers will have access to the database, server, and other aspects of the development environment. In Github, version control will also be implemented with small version updates being released on a regular schedule. This will also keep track of any changes made to the codebase. Users of the Github page will be able to access the different versions and may download any version they prefer. To ensure maintenance of the open-source project, sustainability policies, a governance structure, and proper management must be carried out. Roles and responsibilities of project contributors must be defined and a roadmap for future development should be established. It is essential for the open-source project to be monitored regularly (bug fixes, releasing new features, updating policies) to ensure security, relevant, and viable towards user needs. With all these concepts in mind, the social networking website and app will be successfully open-sourced on Github. 

Community members’ ability to modify the source code will vary based on their rank and contribution significance within the project. The more one contributes, the greater ability they will have to make changes. This will encourage less committed members to provide greater engagement and involvement as well as have role models in the community. Since our community values the open-source principle of transparency, it is essential to be transparent with the public regarding released versions and the reasoning behind decisions of any developments. In addition, valuing users and their feedback is essential to make the project successful as it continues to improve. Data breaches are something that occurs everyday, so to address this issue, my open-source project will have a cybersecurity team that is educated with the most up to date security measures. With this in mind, licenses to prevent code theft will be implemented as well as policies to take legal action if necessary to protect user data. 

### Licenses   
For this social networking platform, we will use the GNU General Public License (GPL). [4] The GPL license allows the source code to be open for free use and modification by the public, which aligns with the project’s aim of creating an inclusive community platform. The GPL license requires the source code of the social networking platform to be open and freely accessible to anyone who uses or modifies the code and users are allowed to redistribute the code freely without any additional restrictions. In addition, any derivative modifications of the initial code must be published under the same GPL code. The overall purpose of the GPL license promotes collaboration and knowledge exchange which aligns with the goals of my open-source project. 

### Community Events & Community Meetings  
Having addressed the project’s logistical components, we will now delve into community events that aim to engage and educate members, as well as events that are crucial to make the social networking platform successful. This open-source project has set in place a schedule to hold regular meetings on a weekly basis. The meetings will focus on discussing any critical issues that may impact both the social networking platform itself as well as the larger community. The larger meetings will not just be limited to those who contribute code to the project. In addition, those who financially fund the project, such as grant providers, will gain unlimited access to the meetings. This is because these individuals or groups have heavily invested in the success of the community. 
For the time being, attendance at these meetings are only for influential contributors of the social networking platform who make the community stronger and project more successful. Although this is true, if a sufficient number of community members who are not as involved in the open-source project agree in a vote to address issues with non-meeting attendees, then this policy can be changed. This means that community members’ votes will be treated as equivalent to the votes of meeting attendees. 

Community input is extremely important for the success of this social networking platform. This means we will also hold standard meetings for anyone to join and offer any direct input. In order to make the open-source networking platform successful, it is necessary to implement a clear decision-making process where users can input their feedback. This means it is important to recognize the value of feedback from all members, regardless of their status within the community. To ensure all voices are heard, weekly meetings will be held in a collaborative and transparent member. The general public’s opinion is essential to make the platform successful, but they will not be able to make contributions to these decisions until the information has been made public for all. 


### Special Events & Partnerships
This open-source social networking platform can incorporate partnerships and hold special events in various ways to promote collaboration and community support. Like I previously mentioned, partnering with local businesses, such as yoga studios or cooking classes, can provide opportunities for community members to engage in activities together and create new connections directly through the platform. Partnering with a list of businesses and offering exclusive discounts or promotions for those that use the platform can be an incentive for people to gather together. For example, a yoga studio could offer a discount code for a free class to members who sign up through the open-source platform. [6] Another way to promote collaboration is to hold special events which could be hosted by the platform or in collaboration with partner businesses. For example, an art studio could host a painting event for members of the platform, where users can sign up for the class directly through the website or app. These special events could also host a meet-and-greet with other members of the community, providing opportunities for members to connect and create new relationships. By incorporating partnerships and holding special events, the open-source project will create community engagement and even provide opportunities to generate revenue. 

### Sustainability & Code Language
My priority for selecting a coding language is to choose one that is highly effective, user-friendly, and reliable for the project’s specific needs. With careful consideration, I believe Python is the most user-friendly language that can also handle complex tasks. However, since the project requires communication with other systems, C++ is also a coding language that should be incorporated. In addition, I have experience in Python and C++ which makes both these languages a practical choice. To maintain the quality and maintenance of the source code, I want to implement a maintenance team who will ensure that coding practices stay up to date. I also want to incorporate a cybersecurity team to make sure there are no data breaches and to prioritize data protection and privacy. There will also be a community manager who will be responsible for managing community affairs, such as the special events and other related tasks. 

### Conclusion      
In conclusion, this paper offers a detailed overview of my open-source project and its impact on the community. With advancements in technology, I believe this open-source social networking platform will bring the community together who have similar interests and hobbies. The platform will foster knowledge sharing, engagement, and personal growth among hobbyists and enthusiasts in a collaborative and inclusive community. With this in mind, I hope this open-source project will create a diverse and vibrant community for people who can learn, collaborate, and grow together while promoting the values of openness and community-driven development. 


### References     
Opensource.com. (n.d.). What is open source? Retrieved May 5, 2023, from https://opensource.com/resources/what-open-source

Mozilla Developer Network. (n.d.). Django Web Framework Introduction. Retrieved May 5, 2023, from https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django/Introduction

Django. (n.d.). The Web framework for perfectionists with deadlines. Retrieved May 5, 2023, from https://www.djangoproject.com/

GNU General Public License, version 3.0. (2007). Retrieved May 5, 2023, from https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html

GNU General Public License (GPL) Version 2.0. (1991). Retrieved May 5, 2023, from https://opensource.org/licenses-old/gpl-license-html/

Digital Yoga Academy. (n.d.). How to create partnerships in the yoga community. Retrieved May 6, 2023, from https://digitalyogaacademy.com/how-to-create-partnerships-in-the-yoga-community/

MyIntent. (n.d.). How to partner with local yoga and fitness studios. Retrieved May 6, 2023, from https://myintent.org/blogs/blog/how-to-partner-with-local-yoga-and-fitness-studios

Teaching Yoga. (n.d.). Partnerships & collaborations. Retrieved May 6, 2023, from https://teachingyoga.net/partnerships-collaborations/

Carter, L., & MacLeod, H. (2012). An open source approach to partnership building. Technology Innovation Management Review, 2(10), 24-28. doi: 10.22215/timreview/609. Retrieved May 6, 2023, from https://timreview.ca/article/364

