## IS 340 Final Paper
Ben Tsai, Spring 2023

### Introduction

Throughout this paper, I will propose an open-source project that is designed to empower Gmail users with the ability to effortlessly share an inbox, foster collaborative communication, and streamline workflow. Considering the necessity of the email solution offered by Google Workspace in many teams and organizations around the world, our project can fill in the missing pieces to improve overall productivity and efficiency in their email management.

### Purpose

The purpose of the project is to develop a solution that attempts to solve the pain points for teams and organizations using the Gmail service due to its lack of a proper shared mailbox feature, which ultimately leads to impacts on productivity and internal collaborations. Gmail only provides options such as shared labels to allow multiple users to access and manage emails, but these may not be as robust as a dedicated shared mailbox feature. The only way for numerous people to view a Gmail account is to share credentials, such as the account password. This can be a significant security risk, as sharing login details with others can compromise the confidentiality and privacy of the account. Furthermore, if one person leaves the team or organization, changing the account password becomes necessary to ensure that the ex-employee no longer has access. However, this can be a problem when multiple people have access to the same account, and there is no way to know who might still be using it.

One of the significant challenges would be the complexity of organizing and tracking shared email conversations. Team members may often struggle to keep track of email threads, resulting in missed messages or duplicated responses. This becomes even more difficult and error-prone when the team is one that is externally facing, such as customer service and account receivable units. In addition, time is wasted and can potentially lead to disjointed experiences when multiple people are involved in handling the same email thread. In this particular scenario, a shared mailbox feature would provide a unified view of all email conversations, ensuring that everyone involved has visibility into the latest updates and responses. Another significant challenge would be the lack of a centralized platform to manage shared email accounts. Without a proper shared mailbox feature, team members often resort to manual workarounds such as forwarding emails or sharing login credentials, which can cause confusion and make it difficult to track ownership and responsibility for emails. This decentralized approach hampers workflow efficiency and creates a lack of accountability. The absence of granular access controls and permissions in Gmail can pose security and privacy risks. Without proper access management, it becomes challenging to control who can view, reply to, or delete emails in shared mailboxes. This lack of control increases the chances of unauthorized actions and compromises the confidentiality of sensitive information. A robust shared mailbox solution offers fine-grained access controls, allowing organizations to define user roles and permissions, thereby mitigating these inadvertently created security risks.

### Audience

Our ideal target audience would start out from student groups, such as registered student organizations. These organizations often do not have the money or the resources to acquire a fully-fledged enterprise solution but still require the need to utilize the features offered in this open-source project. Take a registered student organization that I have recently interviewed as an example; they have a mailbox that uses the Gmail service that is shared with the general public. They often receive up to 15 to 30 emails per day. As they receive multiple emails per day, being off-sync would cause chaos as more than one member in the organization attempts to keep track and reply to every mail. It could lead to problems such as unresponded emails or duplicates of replies. Without an architectural way of distributing members to dedicated mail, it would require exceptional communication to guarantee the number and quality of responses. These organizations with an assigned mailbox could then be wasting labor efforts as members would have to double check with each other for assigning respondents while ensuring that each of them is working on the mail of their own expertise. Such a target group would be suitable for testing out our open-source program. With our system, it would save their effort of continuous supervision and communication as it would be easy to appoint and distribute incoming mail to different members. While remaining beneficial, considering the informality of such student organizations, it would also be more forgiving when an error in our system occurs. After proficient testing through various registered student organizations, we'll be able to guarantee our quality control to small and medium-sized businesses.

After testing is done with the collaboration of registered student organizations, small and medium-sized organizations will be our target customers. With only a few company mailboxes, it would be easy to meet their needs through our minimal product without additional features. As they are satisfied with our service, they'll be able to try out the enterprise plan of our product. As our enterprise plan is complete, we'll be able to reach out to larger corporations that require the distribution and connection of multiple respondents to multiple mailboxes. The add-ons in our enterprise plan will allow hosting for these larger corporations, thus alleviating the complexity of setting up such a service within their own company.

### Architecture

The project will consist of two components—client and server. The client will be JavaScript code that runs on the client side of the Gmail web interface, where it embeds additional functionality that is not readily available in the service. The server will be a self-hosted application that runs on any Linux-compatible server that contains a user-friendly interface to manage the shared inboxes and a daemon that communicates with the client in real time when the status of each email changes. The plugin will have a separate tab available for the different statuses, such as Open, Closed, or Pending, to ensure that no email requests go unnoticed by having each of the emails explicitly labeled, which would prevent any from slipping through the cracks. To prevent redundant efforts and to streamline the existing workflow, as explained earlier, there is a collision detection technology that will ensure that multiple team members do not simultaneously tackle the same support request. It will display a banner when another user is on the same email and play an audio tone to signal the person when someone is already typing up a response. Furthermore, each email can have a primary responsible person labeled, which means that the person is serving as the point of contact and is in charge of responding to the email request. This establishes responsibility and allows the distribution of workload by allocating emails to different members of the team.

### Source Code

We have chosen the adoption of GitHub to host the code base primarily due to the robust and feature-rich environment that is designed for version control and collaborative development. Moreover, it is very popular and widely used in the world of open source, where it has a strong community and an extensive user base. With the existence of millions of projects and developers available on the platform, we can potentially gain immediate access to a large pool of contributors that are interested in participating in the development, allowing for increased community involvement and establishing an ecosystem around the project. The community can offer valuable insights, identify issues, and contribute to the project's growth and improvement that we may not be able to do simply on our own. Through the utilization of the platform's collaborative features, such as issue tracking, pull requests, and code review tools, streamline the contribution process and ensure effective communication between contributors and the core development team. This also means that we can establish a structured release strategy that encompasses both regular releases and minor releases focused on addressing security patches. These releases ensure that our code base remains up-to-date and secure, providing users with a reliable and stable experience and preventing the potential exposure of sensitive information, including email contents, attachments, and personal data.

Since unauthorized access to a user's email account is a huge concern where the project's source code may be manipulated to gain unauthorized access if not guarded safely, it is crucial for us to ensure the integrity and security of the code base. We enforce strong access controls and encryption mechanisms to protect code base data and privacy. User authentication and authorization are implemented using industry-standard protocols such as 2-factor authentication, ensuring that only authorized individuals can directly modify source codes. In addition, we also implemented restrictions on the master branch where only members with the appropriate permissions are allowed to review and make changes. This is to mitigate the risk of malicious code injection to prevent an accidental download of the source code, which could potentially lead to severe consequences. By having the core development team be responsible for reviewing pull requests, they can carefully evaluate the code changes before merging them into the main branch. I believe this rigorous review process serves as a crucial safeguard and significantly lowers the possibility of the introduction of malicious code that could compromise the overall integrity and security. Despite these restrictions in place, we still actively encourage and welcome pull requests from the experts in the community since we value collaboration and recognize the importance of their contributions. This practice not only fosters a sense of inclusivity but also encourages further participation and collaboration. To motivate such efforts, we have also established a proper acknowledgment and recognition system. It is given to individuals who make substantial contributions which serve as an assurance that their efforts are going to be acknowledged and further incorporated into the project. I personally think that this approach will strike a balance between open-source collaboration and maintaining the necessary security measures to protect the project's integrity.

### Security

The level of access that the project needs to function as intended may raise several security and privacy concerns. For example, the system requires blanket read-all permission on the mailbox profiles that requires the shared mailbox functionality to be able to actually embed the plugin, which may introduce potential risks that need to be addressed to ensure the safeguard of user data and privacy. To mitigate these concerns, we have made security a top priority for our project, thus selecting the open-source approach and implementing multiple measures to ensure the integrity and safety of the product.

One of the benefits of open source is its openness of the source code, specifically allowing for greater scrutiny by security experts in the field, which facilitates a collaborative approach to security. Even though we have implemented common security practices to safeguard the project, the actions that we have taken, such as conducting regular security audits and vulnerability assessments to proactively identify and address any weaknesses in the code, may still not be enough. With more pairs of eyes on the source code, there is a greater chance of identifying and addressing flaws or security vulnerabilities promptly before well-intentioned ethical hackers and malicious actors exploit them. In addition, with donations from the community and the revenues from the enterprise version, we can have even more rigorous security practices in place, such as prioritizing the prompt patching of vulnerabilities and maintaining up-to-date dependencies to mitigate potential risks associated with known vulnerabilities by appointing a 3rd party security consulting firm or employing dedicated security personnel, which would overall further strengthens the overall security posture. This external evaluation adds an extra layer of scrutiny and expertise, providing an independent assessment of the code's security posture. By leveraging the specialized knowledge of these firms, we gain valuable insights and recommendations for mitigating potential risks. Also, we actively engage with the security community by participating in bug bounty programs. This incentivizes ethical hackers and security researchers to responsibly disclose any vulnerabilities they discover, allowing us to address them promptly and reward those who contribute to improving the project's security.

Another benefit of open source is to provide the ability for teams and organizations to choose their own hosting platform and implement their own security measures instead of being forced to use the infrastructure that is the same for all customers in a hosted service scenario. Such design fosters flexibility in the utility of our product. Developers can modify and customize the plugin to suit their specific needs, allowing for rapid iterations and improvements. This prevents collateral damages when one's infrastructure suffers a data breach, especially given the plugin's access to the entire email system, which would compromise the privacy and confidentiality of all communications. In addition, since data is stored on the customer's infrastructure, there would not be privacy concerns such as data mining and tracking capabilities. While the plugin may require access to the user's email for legitimate purposes, such as providing additional features or functionalities, the users have full control over the personal information that is collected and analyzed. Moreover, the possibility of insecure data transmission can be mitigated since the plugin does not utilize insecure encryption protocols to send data to third-party servers from the user's devices which means sensitive information will not be intercepted or compromised during transit.
