## EcoFriendlyMarketplace.com: Connecting Consumers to Sustainable Businesses
Nupur Khandelwal, IS 340 Spring 2023


### Abstract 
In this paper, I will be talking about an open source project that I am interested in developing, which is a website, EcoFriendlyMarketplace.com, to connect consumers to sustainable businesses. I will be going over the background, purpose of the project, open source project management principles applied, development, and where I see this project going in the future. The purpose of this paper is to apply my learnings from IS 340 and project management principles back into this paper into an idea I’m passionate about and explore how I would apply these principles to make my idea stronger.

### Introduction  
EcoFriendlyMarketplace.com aims to connect consumers to sustainable businesses in their area or a specified location. This platform highlights sustainable options and promotes conscious choices for consumers which can help the environment and help consumers support small businesses. The overview of the website will be a homepage with slides that shows products from multiple businesses with different products, gives an overview of them, and guides them to the business they are interested in. There will be many tabs and categories for products such as groceries, beverages, snacks, make up, skincare, gardening, etc. There will be a verification system these businesses will have to go through to be featured on the website and ensure they are not lying about their environmental impact. Additionally, this website will verify if corporations are actually sustainable or if they are greenwashing. It will track big corporations' impact and their future goals to let consumers know if they can trust specific brands who they are already shopping with. This will allow for corporations to be held accountable and possibly be more driven to change their ways and help the environment overall. This project would be beneficial to use open source principals for many reasons. Research has shown that “the open source model provides multiple benefits to teams and organizations, including increased agility and flexibility, better code quality by design, cost-effectiveness, community support, and faster time-to-market for commercial products and services” [1]. Having an open source project will help this website be successful through working with a community to enhance my design. Using open source principles will be useful for this project because there are definitely ideas that I don’t know how to implement such as coding for the website and enhancement features which I can get help through open source principles. Users can have access to my source code, versioning where they can track and compare different versions of my project, and use a technology neutral open source which will make it easier to use this website on different platforms and be able to adjust to future technology changes in the future. 

### Purpose
Currently, an issue this world faces is climate change and increasing negative environmental impact through pollution, waste, and other aspects. One way that humans can help the environment is lowering their impact through purchasing habits which is what my idea focuses on. Corporations produce just about everything we buy, use, and throw away and play an outsized role in driving global climate change. “A recently published report identified that 100 energy companies have been responsible for 71% of all industrial emissions since human-driven climate change was officially recognized” [2]. Data has shown that corporations are heavily responsible for climate change and are contributing to the detriment of the environment. Data has shown that “68% of US executives admit their companies are guilty of greenwashing. And two-thirds of executives globally questioned whether their company's sustainability efforts were genuine” [3]. Greenwashing is a marketing tactic that misleads consumers to believe a company is more sustainable than they are letting on. One way that consumers can help combat this is to decrease their support to big corporations and support local/sustainable businesses who are honest about their carbon footprint. 

EcoFriendlyMarketplace.com will be available to anyone online and businesses who want to be featured on the site have the option to apply and be selected if they meet the criteria. The criteria will be developed with a team of multiple backgrounds and be enhanced as time goes on. The website will be open source so the code can be distributed and modified, gaining insights from more people. I will be working collaboratively as people are available in different places and different times having varied amounts of experience to contribute to this. I believe working with a community will be beneficial for this website as they can provide valuable insights and feedback as well as what consumers would like to see. Communities can also help spread awareness and increase visibility to stakeholders. 

### Targegt audience
The target audience for EcoFriendlyMarketplace.com will be consumers who are interested in reducing their environmental impact and making more eco-conscious purchasing decisions and businesses who want to grow their name. Specifically for consumers, I believe Gen-Z will be more likely to utilize this website as they are more open to helping the planet and making changes but it is still open to anyone who wants to shop sustainably. A McKinsey and Co. study has stated that “A recent study by NielsenIQ found that 78 percent of US consumers say that a sustainable lifestyle is important to them. Yet many CPG executives report that one challenge to their companies’ environmental, social, and governance (ESG) initiatives is the inability to generate sufficient consumer demand for these products” [4]. This suggests that there is a growing interest in sustainable products and businesses are not meeting this demand. This means there is an opportunity for businesses to deliver this demand but also multiple new businesses who are working towards being eco-friendly. Businesses will get to reach a wider audience and connect to consumers who are interested in their product. This will be able to help support smaller businesses who don’t have a huge budget for marketing and get feedback from these consumers as they leave reviews. There will also be an idea for a chatbox to ensure that the consumers feel heard when they voice comments or concerns. By having this website, this can connect consumers to sustainable businesses that they are interested in and meet their needs. 

### Strategy
The main tools I will be using to build this website are HTML, JavaScript, and CSS I’ll also be using an IDE (Integrated Development Environment) like VS Code to test and run code and I’m considering using back end languages and databases to store information as well but I believe that will be a longer term implementation. HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) is useful for making up the content of my website and telling the browser what to show on the site. CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) will be used to make the formatting of the website and design more appealing and add enhanced design elements. JavaScript will be useful for adding interactivity to the website and animations. Using these design tools will enhance the usability of my website overall. Programming languages will also be necessary in the backend for business logic and functionality and I plan to use Ruby for these tasks. In the future I believe a database will also be useful to store the data on the website and be able to manage it and I’ll be able to use MySQL for something like this [5]. An IDE like VS Code is beneficial because of features they offer like code editing automation, syntax highlighting, refactoring support, and more [6]. This will be useful because I am not particularly experienced in these languages and would be able to get additional guidance using an IDE.  In the future, I think I will come across new and advanced technologies that would fit the model of my website more which will require me to stay up to the most recent changes.  

I plan to use GitHub and version control for my website as well. GitHub is a version control system which allows users manage edits to a document shared by many collaborators. This open source platform will allow people to access the code for this product and make their own contributions while being anywhere in the world. GitHub will allow for an easy collaboration and save a backup of my code allowing me to evaluate many possible outcomes for the design of my website and being able to make it into the most successful version. GitHub is also very resourceful because of how easily it tracks changes to code and makes sure that everyone is working towards the same outcome [7]. Working with a community of broad experiences will help me learn from others and make sure my end product takes feedback into consideration, making it stronger. 

To track the progress of my website and the timeline I’ll be using Asana which is a task management software that will allow me to sign a timeline, tasks, and collaborators for my project and make it easy to measure the progress. Asana makes collaboration easier by organizing work in one place and makes the platform easier to share ideas [8]. 

Since this website is for advocacy and informative purposes, my team and I will be doing extensive research on the companies we plan to feature on the website. Additionally, we will have the opportunity for companies and consumers to partner with us and be sponsors to grow businesses and get their brand names to a wider audience. We will require a sustainability report submitted and companies will have to go through third party evaluation systems to be featured. We plan to be transparent on this website and will feature setbacks of companies who are failing to meet environmental standards as well.  

### Community 
To have a successful website I need people from multiple backgrounds on my team. To do that I will form a community of sustainability enthusiasts, web developers, sustainable companies, and consumers who will contribute to the project. To build a community I will establish trust and expectations by forming a social contact to ensure everyone is aligned on the common goal. To communicate with the stakeholders in my community I will be using surveys and platforms such as discord and slack to keep in constant communication and ensure that this website is receiving feedback from consumers that are using it as well. 
#### Adversarial Working Groups 
To cultivate core leaders and contributors for the project one thing I will instate is adversarial working groups which can be beneficial for finding different approaches to the same problem. Using this tactic can be helpful for making decisions for the website as well. This can also help support disagreements between people within the community and be used to find flaws and setbacks in the website, making it stronger overall [9]. Overall these working groups will establish trust, find errors, and encourage creative thinking. 
#### Update Community
To keep everyone in the loop I plan to give bi-weekly updates to the community. I will be setting up 2 hours meetings in the middle of the week for updates, concerns, and overall progress. I will be sending email updates once at the beginning of each week and have newsletters go out once a month for highlights of our success and progress. This will give me the opportunity to motivate my community by pointing out their strengths and contributions and visualizing their impact to this project. There will be collaboration platforms like slack, discord, and asana where the community will be able to see their tasks and also ask any questions they may have at all times. 

### Sustainability
To make sure that my website is up to date with any future technological changes I will ensure cross platform compatibility, implement clean code, and secure it. Data has shown that more than half of users view websites on tablets, cell phones, and other mobile devices and the number is increasing for the future. For this reason I will ensure cross compatibility early on by using responsive design and making sure graphics and navigation are the same across all devices. Responsive design will automatically adjust my design layout and content to fit any screen on the device it is being used on. I would implement clean and organized code to ensure that whoever takes care of the backend coding for the website is able to understand the code that is already there which makes the transition process smoother and easier for a community to work on it. Finally, I will work on securing the website early on. An issue with platforms is consumer data being stolen or websites being hacked and to prevent this I plan to get a SSL certificate which will guarantee that information is encrypted and most likely will not be taken by a third party. These sustainability measures will ensure that consumer information is not leaked and the website can be more successful by ensuring data privacy and protecting the overall website reputation [10]. 

### Next Steps
A few next steps for this website will be launching the idea and finding a community who is passionate to work on this project. We will look for stakeholders and investors who are interested in our product and work to help it reach its full potential. A few things that have to be done will be finding initial companies that we can launch on our website, partner with verification systems to ensure the businesses we are showcasing are truly sustainable, and create a way for consumers to give us direct feedback on their experience with businesses and their sustainability practices. Some routine next steps would always be to stay up to date on the latest news and research of companies, add new features, and make sure that I am working with an open source community that knows they are valued and are truly passionate about visualizing their impact for consumers and climate change overall. Lastly, we would need to track analytics of the website to see who is interacting with our content and whether or not this website is growing and reaching a wider consumer base. By doing this we will be able to find solutions to reach a greater audience overall. 

### Conclusion
Overall, managing this open source website project is an idea that requires thorough research and knowledge on sustainability. Climate change is a pressing issue that this planet faces and consumers can start helping out by having corporations be held accountable. This website will support transparency by highlighting positive companies and revealing tactics of big corporations and how they are contributing to climate change. Using an open source community to bring this idea to life will make it much stronger and allow for businesses to get their name out there. Collaboration and project management skills will allow this website to have a clear track for success and hopefully help companies reduce their carbon footprint. Using GitHub and version control tools will especially be helpful to get multiple perspectives for this website to come to life. Together the community that is formed through this website can reach more stakeholders, consumers, and businesses to contribute to the planet’s health. By taking these project management steps, the website can not only help support companies and consumers sustainable choices but also fix the future of the planet. 

### References     
1. “Open Source Project Management: A Complete Guide.” Open Source Project Management: A Complete Guide, www.zenhub.com/guides/open-source-project-management#:~:text=The%20open%20source%20model%20provides,for%20commercial%20products%20and%20services.
2. Axelrod, Josh. “Corporate Honesty and Climate Change: Time to Own up and Act.” Be a Force for the Future, 26 Feb. 2019, www.nrdc.org/bio/josh-axelrod/corporate-honesty-and-climate-change-time-own-and-act#:~:text=Corporations%20produce%20just%20about%20everything,climate%20change%20was%20officially%20recognized. 
3. “The Latest Greenwashing Statistics 2023 You Shouldn’t Ignore • Gitnux.” GITNUX, 2 Mar. 2023, blog.gitnux.com/greenwashing-statistics/#:~:text=68%25%20of%20US%20executives%20admit,company’s%20sustainability%20efforts%20were%20genuine. 
4. Am, Jordan Bar, et al. “Consumers Care about Sustainability-and Back It up with Their Wallets.” McKinsey &amp; Company, 6 Feb. 2023, www.mckinsey.com/industries/consumer-packaged-goods/our-insights/consumers-care-about-sustainability-and-back-it-up-with-their-wallets. 
5. Kucheriavy, Andrew. “Which Technology Is Best for My Website?” Intechnic, 12 Feb. 2018, www.intechnic.com/blog/which-technology-is-right-for-my-website/. 
6. “What Is ...” Amazon, 1978, aws.amazon.com/what-is/ide/#:~:text=An%20integrated%20development%20environment%20. 
7. Naik, Vritika. “Importance of Open-Source: How Github Helps You in Contributing More?” Medium, 19 Feb. 2021, medium.com/analytics-vidhya/importance-of-open-source-how-github-helps-you-in-contributing-more-c7687715be3a. 
8. Asana. “Online Collaboration Tool &amp; Coordination Software • Asana.” Asana, asana.com/uses/team-collaboration. 
9. Adversarial Collaboration Project, web.sas.upenn.edu/adcollabproject/. 
10. Tag Team Design. “10 Tips to Have an Amazing and Future-Proof Website.” Tag Team Design, 5 Jan. 2021, www.tagteamdesign.com/10-tips-to-have-an-amazing-and-future-proof-website/. 
