## Clean Beauty and Skincare App

Sahithi Manne, IS 340 Spring 23

### Abstract
This paper covers the ideas and logistics of developing an app to help users find clean beauty and skincare products for them to use. As many makeup and skincare products use toxic ingredients and people are starting to show interest in choosing products better for themselves, we want to have an app that allows users to see the clean ratings of products they are interested in and to also find cleaner alternatives. This project will target collaborators of all different backgrounds, but we hope that it will especially encourage more beginners and more minorities in computing and open source to join.

### Introduction
Beauty and skincare is a huge industry that currently has a revenue of 100 billion a year worldwide (Howarth). Skincare products, even if they are as basic as a face wash or lotion, are used by practically everyone in the United States. Along with that, around 52% of women in the United States wear makeup along with some men also starting to use some makeup products. With the rise of interest in skincare for men has led experts to predict the men’s skincare and personal care industry alone will hit 276 billion dollars (Howarth). With the rise of influencers on TikTok and Instagram, people have begun to care more about the products they are putting on their skin and hair. Although clean beauty movement has been around for the last three decades, there has recently been a new wave of interest in clean beauty products. Beauty and skincare products are typically made from combinations of 10,500 different chemical ingredients, of which some are considered carcinogenic and can also cause reproductive and endocrine system disruption. Some companies use products as dangerous as formaldehyde and lead acetate, both of which are known to be incredibly dangerous. Unfortunately, most governments, especially the United States, do not strictly regulate the safety of skincare and beauty products. Organizations like the Environmental Working Group (EWG) have made efforts to fill in this gap by providing databases where users can check the safety ratings of their products. This has allowed millions of users to check the safety of their products and has created a lot of awareness (EWG).

### Purpose 
The purpose of this app would be to help consumers make better decisions about their skincare and beauty products. It could be seen as a continuation of the features that EWG and similar databases provide as they give ratings for products from 1-10, with the 1 being great for you and 10 being high risk. These databases do a great job of having records of the safety of the different chemicals and ingredients used in makeup products, along with specific safety analyses of thousands of products. Most databases like EWG make it easy to find the safety of the products they have already rated or give an estimate of a safety rating of an unknown product if the user puts in the ingredients list of the product. One gap these databases currently have is that if a product is rated poorly, it is hard to find products that are similar but are safer for you.
Based on type of product, subtype, color, consistency, user rating, and a few other factors, it would be pretty easy to find products that are similar to the original product, but at a safe rating level that the user is looking for. This would make it very easy for users to find products that are safer for them and are close to the original product they were looking for. To include the ratings for new products that are released on the market, there can be features for a user to add the ingredient list for the product and search for it and save the information as a new product. Once another user verifies the product information, it can be listed as a product, but it just will clarify that it doesn’t have an expert review yet. With the features in the app compared to what is currently available on the market, people will be able to find much safer products for themselves.

### Audience and Community
The main audience for this app is any person who buys skincare or beauty products, which is a large part if the population. Realistically, the main users would be people who regularly buy skincare or beauty products and care about clean products and wellness. Typically, this would also rely on people actually learning about how unsafe many of their products are and deciding to change their consuming habits and self-care routines. Products that are considered a bit cleaner and safer than regular products are paraben-free products, and sales of these are growing 80% faster than the overall market. Additionally, 40.2% of consumers say they consider if the ingredients are natural when purchasing, and organic products sales are expected to grow 8.7% a year for the next four years (Howarth). These statistics show us that people are expected to show more interest in clean beauty products, and these people could all be potential users of this app.
However, the expected open-source community and collaborators would be different that the expected audience for the app. It is likely that people in this community are people who have some knowledge of programming and building apps, and they are also interested in clean beauty products. This would most likely be a small subset of the overall audience, but a unique way to market the community would be to make it appeal to more beginner and intermediate level members and encourage girls and other minorities in the computing field to join. To also encourage more expert level collaborators to join and lead the project as core contributors, this community and project could be shared with clubs that promote women in Computer Science and other related fields at universities. They would most likely have a lot of people who are good at programming and designing apps and might be looking for a new project, but they are more likely to be interested in a project focusing on clean beauty and skincare. Another good way to recruit members is to look at other similar open-source communities that are working on projects in a similar area like health and wellness or beauty and share information about this community (Scammon). Some members might join, and they would likely already have good open-source experience which would really help this community.
With all the different members in this community, it is important to set good guidelines and maintain a good atmosphere in the community. We should promote trust, altruism, and innovation in the community. We can do this by having a set of community guidelines that all users must agree to abide by when they join the community. These guidelines can include principles like cooperation, supporting each other’s’ ideas, critical and helpful feedback instead of criticism, and more. This sense of community can be continued to be maintained through communication and meetings. A discord server can be used for people to communicate, and people can make different channels as they collaborate on different things, but people can also make channels to introduce themselves or to share any other interests or projects they are working on. With many different channels and the different communication methods like text, audio and video calls, people will be able to foster a good community to help build a great project. Additionally, the ability to assign roles in Discord servers can allow people to declare if they are more of a beginner or an expert. It would make it easier to see which people would be good as project managers or leads, and people can see that is it their role and defer to them for any questions or help.

### Open Source and Licensing
Open source is software that is free—in the terms that the collaborators and end users have the freedom to use or modify the software (Wikimedia Foundation). To make this project an open-source project, the project needs to meet the five pillars of open source as was discussed in class. First, the project needs to have publicly available source code, which will be done by maintaining the project on a GitHub repository anyone can see. Next, the software will have a copyleft protection on it, rather than copyright. This protects creators’ content to a light level, but it is mainly the opposite of copyright protections which limit and block the public from using without consent. The next pillar continues this idea by including free distribution and remixing as a principle which allows users to access and change the source code to create new projects in new ways. As software is the central component of open source, the fourth principle highlights the importance of keeping the software technology neutral. It is important the keep it this way to allow distribution through any channels, and this would allow a greater number of people access to it. Finally, the last principle is version; versioning is very important to see new changes and contributions but still make it easy to revert back to other versions. This allows users to create different versions and forks, but any bugs or issues can be traced back to specific versions and points. By hosting the code in GitHub, it will automatically be tracked making it easy for collaborators and managers alike to use. By meeting these principles, the app will be considered a proper open-source project.
	The licensing for this project will be under the Apache 2.0 license. This is an open-source license that will allow users to alter the code, use it commercially, distribute any copies and modifications, relicense new versions of code, and more. This would be the best license as it grants the developers and collaborators clear patent rights, and any new versions of the code require the creators to clearly lay out what the change are (FOSSA Team). With these rights and protections for both the developers and new users, this license would be the best option for this clean beauty app.

### Project Plan and Strategy
	Along with setting up the community, another big part of an open-source project is scoping and planning. The Agile Methodology is a good project management strategy as work can be broken down into many different sprints. Having the work broken down into sprints adds a time constraint which would encourage people to stay engaged. Although there are many useful softwares for planning and road mapping like Asana and Jira, based on the size of the project and use, they can add extra costs to the project. That is why it would be a good idea to use the project management features of GitHub to keep track of work to be done. Since collaborators will already be using GitHub to access the code, it would be convenient for the project tasks for each sprint to be assigned on boards in GitHub.
	The project development would first start with setting up the environment and the basic app framework. Next, the main pages need to be set up with the basic features of calling the product data from the databases we are using. Once we are able to render a basic page with data, we need to create the algorithms to show similar products based on the original product entered. Once the basic functionality is up, we need to use HTML, CSS and good design principles to make the app user friendly, so users can see a benefit from the app. After the basic app is created, other new features can be added as people think of them. This really will show the beauty of open source.
This project tech stack will mainly use Python, MySQL, CSS and HTML. Most of the source code for the app will be written in python; this is because python is considered a good beginner language, yet it is still a powerful language. As we are targeting collaborators that would a wide range of proficiency with programing and open-source projects, we want to make it easy for anyone to get started with this project, and python would be great for this. We would also need SQL and specifically MySQL for accessing the databases that we need to power the app. MySQL is also a pretty easy language to start with as it uses understandable English commands like SELECT, FROM, WHERE that beginners can run queries with to retrieve the makeup and skincare databases’ information. HTML and CSS will be used to provide the structure and visuals of the pages. These languages are also pretty beginner friendly and are also fun for users to play around with to create different page designs.

### Issue Management
Issue management is an important part of an open-source project. Since we want this project to be easy for beginners to get involved with, it is important to mark and tag issues for users to work on properly. We want beginners to know which issues might be good first issues and would want experts to know what they might better put their skills towards. As the project moves on, sometimes problems arise, and they need to be taken care of. In order to do this, parts of the project may get rescoped to better achieve goals. Additionally, issues can get revised and broken down into smaller issues to make them easier to handle. It is up to the project managers and leads to manage the issues on the Kanban boards, so it is important that people who are assigned their roles take it seriously.

### Public Events
Community events are good for increasing engagement with projects. As the intended base of open-source collaborators for this project is pretty limited, having events like hackathons, docathons and town halls will increase awareness and engagement with the project. These kinds of events could easily be marketed to groups like college students since they are typically interested. Since during the hackathon or docathon, they would be able to make significant progress towards the goal, it would be smart to align the events on specific sprints. This way, the people participating will be able to make good progress towards the goal, and hopefully they will also get interested in the overall project. By getting people interested through events like this, in increases the likelihood of the project being maintained in the future.

### Version Control
Version Control is a very important aspect of open-source projects, and this project is no different. As mentioned earlier, this project will be hosted on a GitHub repository. This is because although there are other version control systems, GitHub is the most popular one that users are most likely to be familiar with. Its features include branches and forking, bug tracking, assigning tasks and issues, and more. With many users collaborating to an open-source project, it is very important that versions stay up to date and people’s code aren’t clashing with each other. By having different branches and forks and then having pull requests, people can collaborate without clashes. These features also allow collaborators to easily backtrack if any issues or bugs do arise, and they can go back to the last version where the issue didn’t exist, and work backwards. If the project is successful and takes off, there will likely be one or two main versions, but there will be a lot of different forks and branches with unique characteristics.

### Sustainability
After setting up a collaborative community environment as outlined in the previous sections, it is important to consider how the project will run and how it will continue to sustain itself. 
Project maintainers are very important to the long-term success of the project. G-Research has found that making the experience smoother helps to make maintainers stay and stick with the project long-term (Scammon). Project managers and leads can also use metrics that GitHub provides on measuring contributions to see how the project is being engaged with, and this can hopefully predict future sustainability. If the project is being engaged with pretty consistently and is getting new updates and features consistently, then it is likely that people will continue to do so in the future.

### Conclusion
By developing this app as an open-source project, this app can be developed collaboratively and allow for room for new versions and features. This project can help users by recommending safe beauty and skin care products for them, but it can also help them by encouraging them to get involved with open source and computing by giving them a safe and collaborative community for them to get started in.

### References
COTTON, B. (2022). Program management for Open Source Projects: How To Guide Your Community-driven, Open source... project. O’REILLY MEDIA. 
EWG. (n.d.). About || skin deep® cosmetics database. EWG Skin Deep. https://www.ewg.org/skindeep/learn_more/about/ 
FOSSA Team. (2022, October 26). Open source licenses 101: Apache License 2.0 - fossa. Dependency Heaven. https://fossa.com/blog/open-source-licenses-101-apache-license-2-0/ 
Howarth, J. (2023, March 23). The ultimate list of beauty industry stats (2023). Exploding Topics. https://explodingtopics.com/blog/beauty-industry-stats 
Scammon, A. (2023, January 12). Fork our open source onboarding program. Opensource.com. https://opensource.com/article/23/1/open-source-contributors 
Wikimedia Foundation. (2023, April 13). The Free Software Definition. Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Free_Software_Definition 
